content/musings.md, before:

---
title: Musings
---

*Random (and occasionally unintelligible) thoughts of mine.*

# January 2023

*None*

# December 2022

- Spam email is a great case study in why an unfiltered and unmoderated public
  network leads to a bad user experience.

- What's the manufacturing/baking lead time for Girl Scout cookies? What's
  their true shelf life?

- I'm waiting for a programming language that has a Rust-like syntax but uses a
  Go-like runtime. Gleam looks interesting.

- Restaurants should offer discounts if I bring back the take-out containers
  from a previous order.

- A penalty shootout is a rather terrible way to decide a football game but
  it's certainly not the worst possible option.

- Does there exist a point in time when computing technology ceases to be
  useful and becomes a societal burden? Have we reached or passed this point
  yet? Already today certain industries have argueably become societally
  negative, but on the whole I believe computing is still a positive to
  society. When will the overall sentiment turn negative and will it be in my
  lifetime? How long will it take us to realize what has happened?

Commit message:

musings: adds some January 2023 musings

content/musings.md, after:

---
title: Musings
---

*Random (and occasionally unintelligible) thoughts of mine.*

# January 2023

- *Tanto faz* is my favorite phrase in Portuguese so far.

- *Rebate* is such an odd word that doesn't seem to have a very logical
  etymology. I've found some things like *rebaten* from the 14th century
  but how did we get from there to the modern meaning in shopping?

- At what point does a group hug become a circle of people? Assuming you can't
  have overlapping torsos (or layers to the hug), it seems like at six people
  it's now a circle and no longer a hug. What are the parameters for something
  to be called a "hug"?

# December 2022

- Spam email is a great case study in why an unfiltered and unmoderated public
  network leads to a bad user experience.

- What's the manufacturing/baking lead time for Girl Scout cookies? What's
  their true shelf life?

- I'm waiting for a programming language that has a Rust-like syntax but uses a
  Go-like runtime. Gleam looks interesting.

- Restaurants should offer discounts if I bring back the take-out containers
  from a previous order.

- A penalty shootout is a rather terrible way to decide a football game but
  it's certainly not the worst possible option.

- Does there exist a point in time when computing technology ceases to be
  useful and becomes a societal burden? Have we reached or passed this point
  yet? Already today certain industries have argueably become societally
  negative, but on the whole I believe computing is still a positive to
  society. When will the overall sentiment turn negative and will it be in my
  lifetime? How long will it take us to realize what has happened?
