---
title: "A Weekend with Google Stadia"
date: 2019-11-26T00:00:00
---

This weekend, like many people across the country, I received access to Google's
new Stadia gaming platform.  If you don't already know, Stadia differentiates
itself from the competition (Epic Games Store, Steam, EA Origin, etc.) by using
streaming technology to allow players to play games without needing to install
anything. Players don't even necessarily need a computer. As of writing, Stadia
is supported by the Google Chrome web browser[^1], Google Pixel-line of
smartphones, and the Google Chromecast Ultra when paired with the Google Stadia
controller.

Leading up to Stadia's launch it experienced quite a bit of bad press and
negative feedback from many reviewers, much of which was warranted. As the
launch date approached, and we learned more about Stadia, it was clear that
Google initially over-promised and now had to rollback a lot of features as
"coming soon" or "in 2020" rather than at launch as was expected. However, I
wasn't deterred by all this negativity and kept my pre-order. I knew keeping it
would be a risk but even if Stadia was an utter failure I'd still at least have
a Chromecast Ultra and new USB controller (two things I was eyeing anyway) so it
wouldn't be a total loss.

There are two games in particular that drove me to branch out from PC gaming and
into Stadia: Red Dead Redemption 2 and Cyberpunk 2077. While my PC specs out
just above Red Dead's recommended specifications, I don't really have 150 GB of
free space on my hard drives just lying around that I'd be willing to allocate
to it. As I'm writing this, I have 111 GB free on my "Games" hard drive which
means I'd need to find a way to fit another hard drive into my already
relatively full PC. And with the predicted PC requirements for Cyberpunk 2077
being slightly higher than Red Dead, I wasn't confident my computer would be
able to handle either game all that well (not to mention Cyberpunk's hard drive
requirements).

But before I dropped another $60 into Red Dead Redemption 2 in addition to the
$130 that I spent on the Stadia, I needed to see if it was even worth spending
the money. Thankfully, Stadia graciously offered a free copy of Destiny 2 to
those who had Stadia Pro (of which 3 free months were bundled with the Stadia
Founder's Edition). Given that Destiny 2 is a reasonably demanding game visually
I felt this would be a decent measurement of Stadia's performance. After about
15 minutes via Google Chrome on my PC[^2], I felt comfortable that my money
wouldn't entirely go to waste and so I was ready to jump into Red Dead
Redemption 2.

The first start of Red Dead was rocky: the game crashed while I was poking
around the settings menus. A quick restart and a few minutes later I was Arthur
Morgan riding a horse through knee-deep snow in God Knows Where, USA. The
graphical quality was *okay*. The character faces looked like they were covered
in wax but didn't really seem to exhibit any sub-surface scattering. The game
clearly wasn't running on a particularly high graphical setting. Or at least, if
it was, all the details were being smoothed out by the streaming
compression. Speaking of streaming, I was reminded that this game was being
streamed over the internet by the small but noticeable streaming artifacts every
couple minutes. In the few hours I played I also experienced stream freezes that
would last several seconds and I would find myself "teleported" several feet
ahead of where I previously was in-game meaning that the freeze was likely with
the stream and not with the game itself.

When the Stadia Controller and Chromecast Ultra finally arrived, I set them up
on my 4K TV and played some more Red Dead. Putting aside the fact that playing
on my living room TV just wasn't as comfortable for my as sitting at my PC, the
game itself looked as good as I expected, but not much better. However I did
experience a noticeable amount of input lag[^3] that wasn't present on my PC. I
definitely felt more comfortable sitting at my desk, but it was nice to know
that I could move to the couch and still get a decent gaming experience.

If I had a Google Pixel phone, I'd probably talk about my experiences with
Stadia on mobile right about here. Sadly, I've been living under the umbrella of
Samsung and I don't know if there are any plans to support non-Pixel devices in
the future.

To summarize my experience with Stadia, I think my decision to retain my
pre-order was the right call. I definitely wasn't blown away by the experience
but I also don't regret any of my Stadia-related purchases. I plan on continuing
to play Red Dead Redemption 2 via Stadia for the foreseeable future and I'll
likely be playing Cyberpunk 2077 on it as well. I don't expect that someone
would be able to competitively play fast action games like Counter-Strike or
Call of Duty successfully on Stadia but other games that are turn-based or
slower paced, like Red Dead, will work perfectly within the limitations of the
platform. And finally, I'm looking forward to what Stadia has in store
come 2020. Hopefully Google can finally deliver on many of the features that
initially promised for the platform.

[^1]: I was also able to play via Brave Browser which is based on Chrome.
[^2]: At this point, the Stadia package was still yet to be delivered so I was only able to test on PC.
[^3]: I discussed this experience with a friend later and he recommended I check and see if my TV has a "gaming" mode, something I'll have to test out in the near future.
