---
title: "Discovering Berkeley Mono"
slug: berkeley-mono
date: 2022-11-15
---

I'm a big supporter of open-source. Not in a "down with capitalism" kind of
way. Instead, I choose open-source softwares when they are reasonably
competitive against their proprietary counterparts. I'm generally willing to
put up with a bit of inconvenience when choosing the open-source route. In some
cases the open-source option is just objectively better than the proprietary
one. In other cases the proprietary choice costs way more than I'm willing to
spend on that category of software. And then in the remaining cases it might
be a toss-up and my inclination towards open-source is purely what leads me to
choose it over the proprietary offering.

All that's not to say that I *only* use open-source software. I admittedly use
lots of proprietary software, sometimes willingly. Although Linux is my primary
and preferred operating system, I still dual-boot Windows 10 for the things
that I can't be bothered to try and get running through Wine. I use Sublime
Text 4 instead of Visual Studio Code[^1]. I use several JetBrains IDEs
professional and personally (for when tmux + neovim just won't cut it, looking
at you Java). And most recently, Berkeley Mono has dethroned JetBrains Mono as
my preferred monospace font.

I've used [JetBrains Mono][jetbrains-mono] since not long after it was
initially released in early 2020 (even outside of JetBrains products). Before
that I used Adobe's [Source Code Pro][source-code-pro]. At times I experimented
with Fira Code and Hack but neither of them really stuck with me. But then, a
few days ago, I came across [Berkeley Mono][berkeley-mono] and it just looks
fantastic to my eyes.

I've always been really interested in retro computing. I was born too late to
experience this era of computing first hand so instead I need to live it
vicariously through the mediums that are available to me today like Wikipedia
and YouTube. Berkeley Mono is specifically designed as a homage to this era. Do
I feel like Ken Thompson when using it? Not quite, but it does make me feel
like he and I could be working in the same building and occasionally running
into each other in the cafeteria.

I'm happy to pay the $75 for the little hits of dopamine I get now when I open
my terminal. I'm particularly very fond of the slashed zero which is more of a
rounded square than an oval.

[^1]: Neovim is still my go-to text editor.

[jetbrains-mono]: https://www.jetbrains.com/lp/mono/
[source-code-pro]: https://adobe-fonts.github.io/source-code-pro/
[berkeley-mono]: https://berkeleygraphics.com/typefaces/berkeley-mono/
